import random
import re

greetings = ["hi", "hello", "hey", "hola"]
responses = ["Hello!", "Hi there!", "Hey!", "Greetings!"]

def chatbot_response(user_input):
    user_input = user_input.lower()
    if user_input in greetings:
        return random.choice(responses)
    
    # Basic Questions and responses
    elif "how are you" in user_input:
        return "I'm a bot, but I'm doing great! How can I help you?"
    elif "what is your name" in user_input:
        return "I am a simple chatbot created to assist you."
    elif "help" in user_input:
        return "Sure! I can help you with general questions. What do you need assistance with?"
    elif "crack a joke" in user_input:
        return "Why don't scientists trust atoms? Because they make up everything!"
    elif "what is the weather" in user_input:
        return "I can't check the weather, but I hope it's nice where you are!"
    elif "thank you" in user_input:
        return "You're welcome! If you have more questions, feel free to ask."
    elif "what can you do" in user_input:
        return "I can chat with you, answer simple questions, and tell jokes. What would you like to know?"
    elif "who created you" in user_input:
        return "I was created by a team of developers to assist with basic queries."
    elif "tell me a fact" in user_input:
        return "Did you know that honey never spoils? Archaeologists have found pots of honey in ancient Egyptian tombs that are over 3000 years old and still edible!"
    elif "favorite color" in user_input:
        return "I don't have a favorite color, but I think blue is nice!"
    elif "favorite food" in user_input:
        return "I don't eat, but I hear pizza is quite popular!"
    elif "favorite music" in user_input:
        return "I don't listen to music, but I know many people enjoy genres like pop, rock, and classical."
    elif "favorite movie" in user_input:
        return "I don't watch movies, but I know classics like 'The Godfather' and 'Star Wars' are very popular."
    elif "favorite book" in user_input:
        return "I don't read books, but I know many people love 'To Kill a Mockingbird' and '1984'."
    elif "give me an advice" in user_input:
        return "Always be kind to others, and don't forget to take care of yourself!"
    elif "tell me a riddle" in user_input:
        return "What has keys but can't open locks? A piano!"
    elif "Can you tell me a tongue twister?" in user_input:
        return "She sells seashells by the seashore."
    elif "tell me a quote" in user_input:
        return "The only limit to our realization of tomorrow is our doubts of today. - Franklin D. Roosevelt"
    elif "tell me a story" in user_input:
        return "Once upon a time, in a small village, there lived a kind-hearted person who helped everyone in need. One day, they found a lost puppy and took care of it, and the puppy became their loyal friend. Together, they spread kindness throughout the village."
    elif "what is your purpose" in user_input:
        return "My purpose is to assist you with your questions and provide a friendly chat experience."
    elif "what is your age" in user_input:
        return "I don't have an age like humans do, but I was created recently to help you!"
    elif "what is your favorite hobby" in user_input:
        return "I don't have hobbies, but I enjoy chatting with you!"
    elif "what is your favorite animal" in user_input:
        return "I think dogs are great companions, and cats are quite independent and charming!"
    elif "what is your favorite season" in user_input:
        return "I don't experience seasons, but many people love spring for its flowers and fall for its colors."
    elif "what is your favorite holiday" in user_input:
        return "I don't celebrate holidays, but I know many people enjoy Christmas and New Year's for the joy they bring."
    elif "what is your favorite sport" in user_input:
        return "I don't play sports, but I know soccer and basketball are very popular around the world."
    elif "what is your favorite game" in user_input:
        return "I don't play games, but I know many people enjoy chess and video games like Minecraft and Fortnite."
    elif "what is your favorite song" in user_input:
        return "I don't have a favorite song, but I know many people love classics like 'Bohemian Rhapsody' and 'Imagine'."
    elif "what is your favorite movie genre" in user_input:
        return "I don't watch movies, but I know many people enjoy action, comedy, and drama genres."
    elif "what is your favorite book genre" in user_input:
        return "I don't read books, but I know many people enjoy fiction, mystery, and fantasy genres."
    elif "tell me a fun fact" in user_input:
        return "Did you know that octopuses have three hearts? Two pump blood to the gills, while one pumps it to the rest of the body!"
    elif "what is your favorite planet" in user_input:
        return "I don't have favorites, but Earth is fascinating because it's the only planet known to support life!"
    elif "what is your favorite programming language?" in user_input:
        return "I don't have personal preferences, but Python is widely loved for its simplicity and versatility!"
    elif "what languages do you speak?" in user_input:
        return "I can understand and respond in English, but I can also provide information in other languages if needed."
    
    # Capitals and countries
    elif "list capitals" in user_input or "show capitals" in user_input:
        capitals = [
            "France: Paris", "Japan: Tokyo", "India: New Delhi", "USA: Washington, D.C.",
            "Germany: Berlin", "Italy: Rome", "Spain: Madrid", "Canada: Ottawa",
            "Australia: Canberra", "UK: London", "China: Beijing", "Russia: Moscow",
            "Brazil: Brasília", "Mexico: Mexico City", "South Africa: Pretoria/Bloemfontein/Cape Town",
            "Egypt: Cairo", "Argentina: Buenos Aires", "South Korea: Seoul", "Turkey: Ankara",
            "Saudi Arabia: Riyadh", "Indonesia: Jakarta", "Nigeria: Abuja", "Pakistan: Islamabad",
            "Bangladesh: Dhaka", "Vietnam: Hanoi", "Thailand: Bangkok", "Philippines: Manila",
            "Malaysia: Kuala Lumpur", "Singapore: Singapore", "Greece: Athens", "Portugal: Lisbon",
            "Netherlands: Amsterdam", "Belgium: Brussels", "Switzerland: Bern", "Sweden: Stockholm",
            "Norway: Oslo", "Finland: Helsinki", "Denmark: Copenhagen", "Iceland: Reykjavik",
            "Ireland: Dublin", "Poland: Warsaw", "Czech Republic: Prague", "Hungary: Budapest",
            "Austria: Vienna", "Romania: Bucharest", "Bulgaria: Sofia", "Serbia: Belgrade",
            "Croatia: Zagreb", "Slovenia: Ljubljana", "Slovakia: Bratislava", "Ukraine: Kyiv",
            "Belarus: Minsk", "Lithuania: Vilnius", "Latvia: Riga", "Estonia: Tallinn",
            "Moldova: Chișinău", "Georgia: Tbilisi", "Armenia: Yerevan", "Azerbaijan: Baku",
            "Kazakhstan: Nur-Sultan", "Uzbekistan: Tashkent", "Kyrgyzstan: Bishkek",
            "Tajikistan: Dushanbe", "Turkmenistan: Ashgabat", "Afghanistan: Kabul",
            "Iran: Tehran", "Iraq: Baghdad", "Syria: Damascus", "Lebanon: Beirut", "Jordan: Amman"
        ]
        return "Here are some capitals I know:\n" + "\n".join(capitals)
    elif "what is the capital of france?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of France is Paris."
    elif "what is the capital of japan?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Japan is Tokyo."
    elif "what is the capital of india?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of India is New Delhi."
    elif "what is the capital of the usa?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of the USA is Washington, D.C."
    elif "what is the capital of germany?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Germany is Berlin."
    elif "what is the capital of italy?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Italy is Rome."
    elif "what is the capital of spain?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Spain is Madrid."
    elif "what is the capital of canada?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Canada is Ottawa."
    elif "what is the capital of australia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Australia is Canberra."
    elif "what is the capital of the uk?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of the UK is London."
    elif "what is the capital of china?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of China is Beijing."
    elif "what is the capital of russia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Russia is Moscow."
    elif "what is the capital of brazil?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Brazil is Brasília."
    elif "what is the capital of mexico?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Mexico is Mexico City."
    elif "what is the capital of south africa?" in user_input:
        return "South Africa has three capitals: Pretoria (administrative), Bloemfontein (judicial), and Cape Town (legislative)."
    elif "what is the capital of egypt?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Egypt is Cairo."
    elif "what is the capital of argentina?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Argentina is Buenos Aires."
    elif "what is the capital of russia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Russia is Moscow."
    elif "what is the capital of south korea?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of South Korea is Seoul."
    elif "what is the capital of turkey?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Turkey is Ankara."
    elif "what is the capital of saudi arabia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Saudi Arabia is Riyadh."
    elif "what is the capital of indonesia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Indonesia is Jakarta."
    elif "what is the capital of nigeria?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Nigeria is Abuja."
    elif "what is the capital of pakistan?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Pakistan is Islamabad."
    elif "what is the capital of bangladesh?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Bangladesh is Dhaka."
    elif "what is the capital of vietnam?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Vietnam is Hanoi."
    elif "what is the capital of thailand?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Thailand is Bangkok."
    elif "what is the capital of philippines?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of the Philippines is Manila."
    elif "what is the capital of malaysia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Malaysia is Kuala Lumpur."
    elif "what is the capital of singapore?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Singapore is Singapore (the country is a city-state)."
    elif "what is the capital of greece?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Greece is Athens."
    elif "what is the capital of portugal?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Portugal is Lisbon."
    elif "what is the capital of netherlands?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of the Netherlands is Amsterdam."
    elif "what is the capital of belgium?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Belgium is Brussels."
    elif "what is the capital of switzerland?" in user_input:    
        return "The capital of Switzerland is Bern."
    elif "what is the capital of sweden?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Sweden is Stockholm."
    elif "what is the capital of norway?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Norway is Oslo."
    elif "what is the capital of finland?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Finland is Helsinki."
    elif "what is the capital of denmark?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Denmark is Copenhagen."
    elif "what is the capital of iceland?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Iceland is Reykjavik."
    elif "what is the capital of ireland?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Ireland is Dublin."
    elif "what is the capital of poland?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Poland is Warsaw."
    elif "what is the capital of Czech republic?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of the Czech Republic is Prague."
    elif "what is the capital of hungary?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Hungary is Budapest."
    elif "what is the capital of austria?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Austria is Vienna."
    elif "what is the capital of romania?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Romania is Bucharest."
    elif "what is the capital of bulgaria?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Bulgaria is Sofia."
    elif "what is the capital of serbia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Serbia is Belgrade."
    elif "what is the capital of croatia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Croatia is Zagreb."
    elif "what is the capital of slovenia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Slovenia is Ljubljana."
    elif "what is the capital of slovakia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Slovakia is Bratislava."
    elif "what is the capital of ukraine?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Ukraine is Kyiv."
    elif "what is the capital of belarus?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Belarus is Minsk."
    elif "what is the capital of lithuania?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Lithuania is Vilnius."
    elif "what is the capital of latvia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Latvia is Riga."
    elif "what is the capital of estonia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Estonia is Tallinn."
    elif "what is the capital of moldova?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Moldova is Chișinău."
    elif "what is the capital of georgia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Georgia is Tbilisi."
    elif "what is the capital of armenia?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Armenia is Yerevan."
    elif "what is the capital of azerbaijan?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Azerbaijan is Baku."
    elif "what is the capital of kazakhstan?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Kazakhstan is Nur-Sultan (formerly known as Astana)."
    elif "what is the capital of uzbekistan?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Uzbekistan is Tashkent."
    elif "what is the capital of kyrgyzstan?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Kyrgyzstan is Bishkek."
    elif "what is the capital of tajikistan?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Tajikistan is Dushanbe."
    elif "what is the capital of turkmenistan?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Turkmenistan is Ashgabat."
    elif "what is the capital of afghanistan?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Afghanistan is Kabul."
    elif "what is the capital of iran?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Iran is Tehran."
    elif "what is the capital of iraq?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Iraq is Baghdad."
    elif "what is the capital of syria?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Syria is Damascus."
    elif "what is the capital of lebanon?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Lebanon is Beirut."
    elif "what is the capital of jordan?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of Jordan is Amman."
    elif "what is the capital of north korea?" in user_input:
        return "The capital of North Korea is Pyongyang."
    
    # General Knowledge Questions
    elif "what is the largest country in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The largest country in the world by land area is Russia."
    elif "what is the smallest country in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The smallest country in the world by land area is Vatican City."
    elif "what is the longest river in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The longest river in the world is the Nile River, although some sources also consider the Amazon River to be longer."
    elif "what is the highest mountain in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The highest mountain in the world is Mount Everest, which stands at 8,848 meters (29,029 feet) above sea level."
    elif "what is the largest ocean in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The largest ocean in the world is the Pacific Ocean."
    elif "what is the smallest ocean in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The smallest ocean in the world is the Arctic Ocean."
    elif "what is the largest desert in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The largest desert in the world is the Antarctic Desert, followed by the Arctic Desert. The largest hot desert is the Sahara Desert."
    elif "what is the largest continent in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The largest continent in the world by land area is Asia."
    elif "what is the smallest continent in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The smallest continent in the world by land area is Australia."
    elif "what is the most spoken language in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The most spoken language in the world is English, followed by Mandarin Chinese."
    elif "what is the least spoken language in the world?" in user_input:
        return "There are many languages with very few speakers, but one of the least spoken languages is Taushiro, which has only a handful of speakers left."
    elif "what is the most popular sport in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The most popular sport in the world is soccer (football), with billions of fans globally."
    elif "what is the most popular food in the world?" in user_input:
        return "Pizza is often considered one of the most popular foods worldwide, enjoyed in various forms across different cultures."
    elif "what is the most popular drink in the world?" in user_input:
        return "Water is the most consumed drink in the world, but tea and coffee are also extremely popular beverages."
    elif "what is the most popular music genre in the world?" in user_input:
        return "Pop music is one of the most popular music genres globally, but genres like rock, hip-hop, and electronic dance music also have large followings."
    elif "what is the most popular movie in the world?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, 'Avatar' (2009) is the highest-grossing movie of all time, but many films like 'Titanic' and 'Star Wars' are also extremely popular."
    elif "what is the most popular book in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The Bible is often considered the most widely read and distributed book in the world, followed by other classics like 'Don Quixote' and 'Harry Potter'."
    elif "what is the most popular holiday in the world?" in user_input:
        return "Christmas is one of the most widely celebrated holidays around the world, followed by New Year's Day and Easter."
    elif "what is the most popular festival in the world?" in user_input:
        return "Carnival in Brazil is one of the most famous festivals globally, attracting millions of visitors. Other notable festivals include Diwali in India and Oktoberfest in Germany."
    elif "what is the most popular tourist destination in the world?" in user_input:
        return "Paris, France, is often considered the most popular tourist destination in the world, known for its iconic landmarks like the Eiffel Tower and Louvre Museum."
    elif "what is the most popular city in the world?" in user_input:
        return "Tokyo, Japan, is often regarded as one of the most popular cities in the world, known for its vibrant culture, technology, and cuisine."
    elif "what is the most popular animal in the world?" in user_input:
        return "Dogs are often considered the most popular pets worldwide, followed closely by cats. In the wild, animals like elephants and lions are also very popular."
    elif "what is the most popular plant in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The most popular houseplant is the pothos (Epipremnum aureum), known for its hardiness and ability to thrive in various conditions. In gardens, roses are one of the most popular flowers."
    elif "what is the most popular tree in the world?" in user_input:
        return "The oak tree is one of the most popular trees in the world, known for its strength and longevity. Other popular trees include the maple and pine."
    elif "what is the most popular technology in the world?" in user_input:
        return "Smartphones are among the most popular technologies in the world, with billions of users. Other popular technologies include laptops, tablets, and smart home devices."
    elif "what is the most popular social media platform in the world?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, Facebook is one of the most popular social media platforms globally, followed by Instagram, Twitter (now X), and TikTok."
    elif "what is the most popular website in the world?" in user_input:
        return "Google is the most visited website in the world, followed by YouTube and Facebook."
    elif "what is the most popular search engine in the world?" in user_input:
        return "Google is the most popular search engine in the world, handling billions of searches every day."
    elif "what is the most popular programming language in the world?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, Python is one of the most popular programming languages, known for its simplicity and versatility. Other popular languages include JavaScript, Java, and C++."
    elif "what is the most popular video game in the world?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, 'Minecraft' is one of the most popular video games in the world, with millions of active players. Other popular games include 'Fortnite', 'Call of Duty', and 'League of Legends'."
    elif "Who is the president of the USA?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the President of the USA is Joe Biden. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the prime minister of the uk?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the Prime Minister of the UK is Rishi Sunak. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the chancellor of germany?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the Chancellor of Germany is Olaf Scholz. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the president of france?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the President of France is Emmanuel Macron. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the prime minister of canada?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the Prime Minister of Canada is Justin Trudeau. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the prime minister of india?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the Prime Minister of India is Narendra Modi. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the president of russia?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the President of Russia is Vladimir Putin. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the president of china?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the President of China is Xi Jinping. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the prime minister of australia?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the Prime Minister of Australia is Anthony Albanese. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the president of brazil?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the President of Brazil is Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the president of mexico?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the President of Mexico is Andrés Manuel López Obrador. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the president of south africa?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the President of South Africa is Cyril Ramaphosa. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the prime minister of japan?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the Prime Minister of Japan is Fumio Kishida. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the prime minister of italy?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the Prime Minister of Italy is Giorgia Meloni. Please verify as this may change."
    elif "who is the prime minister of spain?" in user_input:
        return "As of my last update, the Prime Minister of Spain is Pedro Sánchez. Please verify as this may change."
    
   
   # Math operations 
    elif "add" in user_input or "plus" in user_input:
        numbers = re.findall(r'\d+', user_input)
        if len(numbers) >= 2:
            result = int(numbers[0]) + int(numbers[1])
            return f"The sum is {result}."
        else:
            return "Please provide two numbers to add, like 'add 5 and 7'."
    elif "subtract" in user_input or "minus" in user_input:
        numbers = re.findall(r'\d+', user_input)
        if len(numbers) >= 2:
            result = int(numbers[1]) - int(numbers[0])
            return f"The result is {result}."
        else:
            return "Please provide two numbers to subtract, like 'subtract 10 from 20'."
    elif "multiply" in user_input or "times" in user_input:
        numbers = re.findall(r'\d+', user_input)
        if len(numbers) >= 2:
            result = int(numbers[0]) * int(numbers[1])
            return f"The product is {result}."
        else:
            return "Please provide two numbers to multiply, like 'multiply 3 and 4'."
    elif "divide" in user_input or "over" in user_input:
        numbers = re.findall(r'\d+', user_input)
        if len(numbers) >= 2:
            if int(numbers[1]) != 0:
                result = int(numbers[0]) / int(numbers[1])
                return f"The quotient is {result}."
            else:
                return "Cannot divide by zero!"
        else:
            return "Please provide two numbers to divide, like 'divide 8 by 2'."

    # Technology
    elif "what is ai" in user_input:
        return "AI stands for Artificial Intelligence, which refers to the simulation of human intelligence in machines that are programmed to think and learn."
    elif "what is machine learning" in user_input:
        return "Machine Learning is a subset of AI that involves training algorithms to learn from and make predictions based on data."
    elif "what is deep learning" in user_input:
        return "Deep Learning is a type of machine learning that uses neural networks with many layers to analyze various factors of data."
    elif "what is natural language processing" in user_input:
        return "Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a field of AI that focuses on the interaction between computers and humans through natural language."
    elif "what is computer vision" in user_input:
        return "Computer Vision is a field of AI that enables computers to interpret and understand visual information from the world."
    elif "what is blockchain" in user_input:
        return "Blockchain is a decentralized digital ledger that records transactions across many computers in such a way that the registered transactions cannot be altered retroactively."
    elif "what is cloud computing" in user_input:
        return "Cloud Computing is the delivery of computing services over the internet, allowing for on-demand access to resources like storage, processing power, and applications."
    elif "what is the internet of things" in user_input:
        return "The Internet of Things (IoT) refers to the network of physical devices that are connected to the internet, allowing them to collect and exchange data."
    elif "what is quantum computing" in user_input:
        return "Quantum Computing is a type of computing that uses quantum bits (qubits) to perform calculations at speeds unattainable by traditional computers, leveraging the principles of quantum mechanics."
    elif "what is augmented reality" in user_input:
        return "Augmented Reality (AR) is a technology that overlays digital information, such as images or sounds, onto the real world, enhancing the user's perception of their environment."
    elif "what is virtual reality" in user_input:
        return "Virtual Reality (VR) is a simulated experience that can be similar to or completely different from the real world, often using headsets to immerse users in a virtual environment."
    elif "what is cybersecurity" in user_input:
        return "Cybersecurity is the practice of protecting systems, networks, and programs from digital attacks, ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information."
    elif "what is big data" in user_input:
        return "Big Data refers to large and complex data sets that traditional data processing software cannot manage efficiently. It involves the collection, storage, and analysis of vast amounts of data to uncover patterns, trends, and insights."
    elif "what is 5g" in user_input:
        return "5G is the fifth generation of mobile network technology, offering faster speeds, lower latency, and greater capacity compared to previous generations, enabling new applications like IoT and enhanced mobile broadband."
    elif "what is the metaverse" in user_input:
        return "The Metaverse is a collective virtual shared space, created by the convergence of virtually enhanced physical reality and physically persistent virtual reality, where users can interact with a computer-generated environment and other users."
    elif "what is cryptocurrency" in user_input:
        return "Cryptocurrency is a digital or virtual currency that uses cryptography for security, making it difficult to counterfeit. It operates on decentralized networks based on blockchain technology, with Bitcoin being the first and most well-known example."
    elif "what is a chatbot" in user_input:
        return "A chatbot is a software application designed to simulate human conversation through text or voice interactions, often used in customer service, information retrieval, and personal assistance."
    elif "what is a search engine" in user_input:
        return "A search engine is a software system designed to carry out web searches, allowing users to find information on the internet by entering keywords or phrases. Examples include Google, Bing, and Yahoo."
    elif "what is a web browser" in user_input:
        return "A web browser is a software application used to access and view websites on the internet. Popular web browsers include Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Safari, and Microsoft Edge."
    elif "what is a database" in user_input:
        return "A database is an organized collection of structured information or data, typically stored electronically in a computer system, that can be easily accessed, managed, and updated. Examples include MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB."
    elif "what is a programming language" in user_input:
        return "A programming language is a formal set of instructions that can be used to produce various kinds of output, such as software applications, scripts, or algorithms. Examples include Python, Java, C++, and JavaScript."
    
        

    # Exit condition
    elif "bye" in user_input:
        return "Goodbye! Have a nice day."
    else:
        return "Sorry, I didn't understand that. Can you rephrase?"

if __name__ == "__main__":
    print("Chatbot: Hello! Type 'bye' to exit.")
    while True:
        user_input = input("You: ")
        reply = chatbot_response(user_input)
        print("Chatbot:", reply)
        if "bye" in user_input.lower():
            break